Today, I implemented a complete CI/CD pipeline with Terraform, Azure DevOps, Helm, and AKS!
Over the past few days, I worked on building an end-to-end automation pipeline that integrates Infrastructure as Code (IaC) and Kubernetes deployments seamlessly.
Here’s what I achieved 👇
 ✅ Terraform — Provisioned complete Azure infrastructure (Resource Group, ACR, AKS, Key Vault, and Networking).
 ✅ Azure DevOps Pipelines — Automated multi-stage pipelines for:
Terraform Init, Plan & Apply
Node.js app build & test
Docker image build & push to Azure Container Registry (ACR)
Helm deployment to Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS)
 ✅ Helm — Simplified and standardized the Kubernetes deployment using charts.
 ✅ End Result — A fully automated CI/CD pipeline that builds, tests, pushes, and deploys a containerized Node.js app to AKS with zero manual steps.
🟢 Final verification:
Pods deployed successfully, LoadBalancer service provisioned, and the app is running live on Azure! ☁️🔥
This project gave me deeper insights into real-world DevOps workflows, especially around Terraform state management, ACR authentication, service principals, and Helm chart troubleshooting.

-----
Table of Contents:
- What is Helm?
- Installing Prometheus & Grafana Without and With Helm
- YAML Files for Manual Installation
- Advantages of Using Helm
- Helm Charts & Repository Setup
- Combining Deployment, Service, and ConfigMap into a Single Chart
- Real-World Example: Deploying an Application
- Introduction to Helmfile
- Managing Multi-Release and Multi-Environment Deployments with Helmfile
- Conclusion: Simplifying Kubernetes Deployments

-----
Successfully Deployed a Web-Based To-Do Application using Helm on Kubernetes! 🎯
Deployed a full-stack To-Do application (frontend + backend) on Kubernetes using Helm for package management. This approach made the deployment more scalable, reusable, and easy to manage.
🔹 Key Highlights:
✅ Containerized frontend & backend using Docker
✅ Stored images in Azure Container Registry (ACR)
✅ Helm charts for easy deployment & versioning
✅ Automated CI/CD pipeline using Azure DevOps
✅ Kubernetes (AKS) for high availability & scalability
With Helm, managing deployments became much simpler, allowing for quick rollbacks and easy upgrades. 🚀

-----
Deploying Jenkins via Helm + StatefulSet on Kubernetes
-----
Prometheus and Grafana using Helm for monitoring and visualizing metrics in Kubernetes clusters. This hands-on project helped me deepen my understanding of observability in cloud-native environments, and I enjoyed working with Helm charts for seamless deployments.
Looking forward to applying these monitoring skills in future projects!
Key takeaways:
1)Enhanced understanding of monitoring Kubernetes clusters using 2)Prometheus and Grafana.
3)Gained experience with Helm charts for automated deployments.
Improved insights into visualizing metrics for better cluster management.

------
(Topics & practice areas are listed below 
)

1. CI/CD & Pipelines
Jenkins, GitHub Actions, GitLab CI
Blue-Green & Canary Deployments
Build Artifacts (Docker + JFrog + Nexus)
Environment Promotion (Dev → QA → Prod)
Rollbacks & Zero-Downtime Deployments
GitOps (ArgoCD, FluxCD)

2. Infrastructure as Code (IaC)

Terraform Modules & State Management
CloudFormation / Pulumi Basics
Policy as Code (OPA, Sentinel)
Multi-Cloud Provisioning
Secret Management (Vault, SSM)
Drift Detection & Auto-Remediation

3. Containers & Orchestration

Docker Networking & Multi-Stage Builds
Kubernetes Architecture (Control Plane, Nodes)
Services, Ingress, ConfigMaps, Secrets
StatefulSets vs Deployments
Helm Charts & Operators
Cluster Autoscaling & Resource Requests
Namespaces & RBAC

4. Monitoring, Logging & Observability

Prometheus, Grafana, Loki, ELK Stack
Tracing (Jaeger, OpenTelemetry)
Metrics vs Logs vs Traces
Alerting Strategies & SLOs/SLIs/SLA
Capacity Planning & Error Budgeting
Incident Response & On-Call Playbooks

5. Cloud & Networking (AWS / GCP / Azure)

VPC, Subnets, Security Groups
Load Balancers, NAT, and Routing
IAM Roles & Policies
EC2, ECS, EKS, Lambda basics
Cloud Networking & Peering
Cost Optimization Techniques

6. SRE Core Concepts

Reliability Engineering Fundamentals
Service Level Indicators (SLI)
Service Level Objectives (SLO)
Blameless Postmortems
Chaos Engineering & Fault Injection
Runbooks / Playbooks
Error Budgets & Availability Targets

7. Linux & Scripting

Systemd, Cron, Process & Memory Monitoring
Shell Scripting (bash, awk, sed, grep)
Python / Go for automation
File Permissions & Networking Tools
Log Rotation & Troubleshooting

8. Security & Compliance

TLS/SSL, Certificates, HTTPS
IAM Principles (Least Privilege)
Secrets Rotation & Management
Container Security (Trivy, Grype, Falco)
CI/CD Security Scans (SAST/DAST)
Audit Logging & Compliance Checks

→ Supporting Tools & Patterns

Git & Version Control Strategies (GitFlow, Trunk-Based)
Package Managers (pip, npm, apt, yum)
Message Queues (Kafka, RabbitMQ)
Service Mesh (Istio, Linkerd)
API Gateways (Kong, NGINX, AWS API Gateway)
Backup & Disaster Recovery Patterns

-----
Deploying a Node.js To-Do App on Kubernetes with Helm! 🎯

Managing applications in Kubernetes can be complex, but Helm makes it easier! Today, I successfully deployed a Node.js To-Do App using Helm, and here’s what I learned:

✅ Created a Helm chart for structured deployment
✅ Configured health checks (Liveness & Readiness Probes) to ensure reliability
✅ Used a NodePort service to expose the app on port 8000
✅ Deployed & upgraded seamlessly using Helm commands
✅ Accessed the app via http://<Node-IP>:30007

-----
Implementing Observability on Kubernetes with Prometheus and Grafana using Helm.

I recently set up an end-to-end observability solution on a Kubernetes cluster using Prometheus and Grafana, deployed via Helm. Here's a brief overview of how I automated the monitoring and visualization of application performance.

Key Technologies:
- Prometheus: Powerful metrics collection and monitoring system.
- Grafana: An intuitive platform for visualizing time-series data.
- Helm: Simplifies the installation and management of Kubernetes applications.

Steps:
1. Install Prometheus and Grafana: Used Helm charts for streamlined deployment and configuration of both Prometheus and Grafana on Kubernetes.
2. Configure Prometheus for Monitoring: Set up Prometheus to scrape and collect metrics from various application components and Kubernetes nodes.
3. Set Up Grafana Dashboards: Integrated Grafana with Prometheus to visualize key metrics using pre-configured dashboards or custom ones tailored to specific needs.

This observability stack ensures comprehensive monitoring and helps track key performance indicators across distributed systems, enabling proactive incident management and performance optimization. 📊🔧

-----
Successfully Automated Azure File Share Backup using Bicep + Azure CLI! 🔧☁️

I’m excited to kick off my Automation Series with Episode 1, where I’ve completed the end-to-end automation of Azure File Share backup configuration using Bicep templates and Azure CLI! 🎯

 🔹 Created a Recovery Services Vault
 🔹 Deployed Azure File Share
 🔹 Registered the storage account with Vault
 🔹 Configured backup protection
 🔹 Verified successful configuration via the Azure Portal ✅

This automation significantly reduces manual effort while ensuring consistency, reliability, and repeatability — a key requirement for enterprise-scale environments.

💡 The power of Infrastructure as Code (IaC) with Bicep is real — declarative, clean, modular, and production-ready.

🔧 Tools Used:
 ✅ Bicep
 ✅ Azure CLI
 ✅ Azure Recovery Services Vault
 ✅ Azure Storage (File Share)

📜Sample Bicep Script to Create a Recovery Services Vault (main.bicep) :

param location string = 'southindia'
resource vault 'Microsoft.RecoveryServices/vaults@2021-12-01' = {
 name: 'vaultname'
 location: location
 sku: {
 name: 'RS0' // RS0 is the valid SKU name currently available for Recovery Services Vaults.
 tier: 'Standard'
 }
 properties: {}
}

📜Deploy using Azure CLI:

az deployment group create \
 --resource-group <YourResourceGroupName> \
 --template-file main.bicep

 ------
 DevOps automation project that demonstrates a full end-to-end CI/CD setup — from provisioning infrastructure to deploying and monitoring a "hello world" Node.js web app on Kubernetes. 

Overview:
 The goal was to automate the deployment of a simple Node.js “Hello World” web application using modern DevOps tools and practices — covering IaC, containerization, orchestration, automation, and observability.

Here’s what I implemented 👇
🔹 Infrastructure as Code (IaC) — Terraform
Built everything using modular Terraform structure for better reusability and clarity.
--> Provisioned a complete AWS EKS Cluster with all networking components (VPC, subnets, routes, IAM roles).
--> Used S3 backend for storing Terraform remote state.
--> Also tried running the Terraform code via Terraform Cloud (https://lnkd.in/gcNxzhUK) to test remote runs.

Containerization — Docker
Created a Dockerfile for the Node.js app, optimized for smaller image size.
Used Docker Hub to push and store the built images.

Orchestration — K8s 
--> Wrote Kubernetes manifests and managed them using Kustomize for clean environment overlays.
--> Configured an Ingress Controller for external access and routing inside the cluster.
--> Used a LoadBalancer service and ingress rules for public accessibility.

CI/CD Pipeline — GitHub Actions
--> Automated the full pipeline: build → push → deploy.
--> The pipeline triggers on every commit to the main branch.
--> It builds the Docker image, pushes to Docker Hub, and applies the updated manifests to the EKS cluster automatically using kubectl.
--> Integrated Lint for code analysis and Trivy for image vulnerability scanning — ensuring security before every deployment.
Observability — Monitoring Setup
--> Installed Prometheus and Grafana using official Helm charts for cluster monitoring.
--> Accessed them through NodePort services via worker node IPs.

Result:
 A completely automated and reproducible DevOps workflow — from code push → image build → deployment → monitoring — all managed through Infrastructure as Code and CI/CD automation.

📘 Tech Stack:
 Terraform | AWS EKS | AWS IAM | Docker | Kubernetes | Kustomize | GitHub Actions | Helm | Prometheus | Grafana | Trivy

-----
𝐃𝐞𝐩𝐥𝐨𝐲𝐢𝐧𝐠 𝐌𝐢𝐜𝐫𝐨𝐬𝐞𝐫𝐯𝐢𝐜𝐞𝐬 𝐨𝐧 𝐊𝐮𝐛𝐞𝐫𝐧𝐞𝐭𝐞𝐬 𝐏𝐥𝐚𝐭𝐟𝐨𝐫𝐦 

This architecture describes deploying a microservices application on Azure Kubernetes Service (AKS). AKS is a managed Kubernetes service that makes deploying, managing, and scaling containerized applications easy.

The architecture consists of the following components:

✅AKS cluster: The AKS cluster is the foundation of the architecture. It provides the infrastructure for running the microservices application.

✅Virtual network: The virtual network isolates the AKS cluster from the rest of the Azure network. It also provides a private network for the microservices application to communicate with each other.

✅Ingress controller: The ingress controller is responsible for routing traffic to the different microservices in the application.

✅Azure Load Balancer: The Azure Load Balancer distributes traffic evenly across the nodes in the AKS cluster.

✅Azure Container Registry: The Azure Container Registry is a private Docker registry for storing the Docker images for the microservices application.

✅Azure Pipelines: Azure Pipelines is a continuous integration and continuous delivery (CI/CD) service that can be used to build, test, and deploy the microservices application to AKS.

✅Helm: Helm is a package manager for Kubernetes that can be used to manage the Kubernetes manifests for the microservices application.

✅Azure Monitor: Azure Monitor collects and stores metrics, logs, and traces for the microservices application. It can be used to monitor the health of the application and troubleshoot problems.

𝐃𝐞𝐩𝐥𝐨𝐲𝐦𝐞𝐧𝐭 𝐩𝐫𝐨𝐜𝐞𝐬𝐬:

The following steps describe the process for deploying a microservices application to AKS using this architecture:

☑️Create an AKS cluster.
☑️Create a virtual network for the AKS cluster.
☑️Deploy the ingress controller to the AKS cluster.
☑️Create an Azure Load Balancer.
☑️Create an Azure Container Registry.
☑️Push the Docker images for the microservices application to the Azure Container Registry.
☑️Create a Helm chart for the microservices application.
--------------
