1. Kubernetes clusters vs Docker

Docker engine runs containers in a single machine where as Kubernetes runs the container in a different worker node. 

Docker runs containers directly in a single Machine. 

in Kubernetes Containers is encapsulated by a smaller unit called Pod.
Kubernetes usually run on cluster setup. So monitoring of Pod health is easy. We can able to increase/Decrease the pod as per real time usage of resources like ram , cpu , memory.

Where as Managing of Container using docker engine is manual work around.

So Docker Is a single of failure. 

Kubernetes will run thier applications on cluster setup that is runs on multiple node. 

Kubernetes is set of software used to manage a container in a cluster setup.

Kubernetes cluster setup consists of Master node and worker node.

Master node is responsible for deploying and managing container in worker node.

Master node consists of certain components which manages worker nodes and underlying Pods

Api server: Act as front end for all set of requests which is received from client end.

eg create a Pod request this request will be handle by Api server in form of Api request. 

Api server will communicate to all other components to process the request and provide the desired output.

Etcd: IT is a database which store the information about the cluster current status.

it is a key-value pair database. 

Controller: It is a core component of Master node.

it is responsible for monitoring the heart beat of Pods in a worker nodes.
if any Pod is down . Controller will recreate a Pod automatically.

By default this option is disabled. We need to enable using replica set or replica Controller.

Scheduler: 

It is responsible for scheduling a Pod in a worker node based on resource utilization.

simple word scheduler only decides where to run the Pods

Worker nodes components:

kubelets: it is agent software present on worker node. Which receives the request from api server and act according to api server request.

kubelets is responsible for monitering the current status of Pod and report back to controller in Master node.

Pod: it is the smallest unit which encapsulate one or more container.

Pod has single ip. 


Container: it is underlying software which will run the container in a Pod.
